.deTH
.PD
.nrIN \\n()Mu
.ift .ds ]H \\$1\^(\^\\$2\^)
.ifn .ds ]H \\$1(\\$2)
.if\\n()s .ds ]D
.if\\n()t .ds ]D UNIX 5.0
.ifn .ds ]D UNIX 5.0
.ds]L
.if!\\$3 .ds ]L (\^\\$3\^)
.if!\\$4 .ds ]D \\$4
.wh0 }H
.wh-\\n(:mu }F
.em}M
.if\\n(nl .bp
.nr)I \\n()Mu
.nr)R 0
.}E
.DT
.ifn \{.na
.nh\}
.ift \{.bd S 3 3
.hy14 \}
..
.TH CHRCV 2 PROTOTYPE
.SH NAME
chrcv \- receive a grammatical channel message
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <chdefs.h>
.PP
.nf
.B "int chrcv (chname, chend, chfunc, prname, prstat, mtype, mtext)"
.B char *chname;
.B int *chend;
.B int *chfunc;
.B char *prname;
.B int *prstat;
.B int *mtype;
.B char *mtext;
.SH DESCRIPTION
Chrcv receives a message from an open channel (see chopen(2)).
More than one channel may be open at a time.
Messages are received in FIFO order.
If no message is available,
the invoking process is suspended until a message arrives.
When more than one channel is open, the first message 
available on any channel is gotten. 
.PP
Various values result from the call.
Chname is the name of the channel which produced
the message.  Chend indicates which end of the channel the 
message arrived from, either AEND (A end) or BEND (B end).  
Chfunc indicates
the channel function performed with the message (see chsend(2)).
Prname is the protocol name in effect, if any.  Prstat is the status
of the protocol, either ACTIVE, IDLE, or an ERROR has occurred in
parsing.  Mtype is the user message type of the message.  Mtext is
the message text.
.SH RETURN VALUE
SUCCESS - message received, NOCHANNEL - an open channel
does not exist, NOTOPEN - no channel is open, 
and FAIL - an error occurred.
.SH SEE ALSO
"Grammatical Channels" by T. E. Portegys

chclose(2), chcreat(2), chkill(2), chflush(2), chopen(2),
chpc(1), chsend(2).
