.deTH
.PD
.nrIN \\n()Mu
.ift .ds ]H \\$1\^(\^\\$2\^)
.ifn .ds ]H \\$1(\\$2)
.if\\n()s .ds ]D
.if\\n()t .ds ]D UNIX 5.0
.ifn .ds ]D UNIX 5.0
.ds]L
.if!\\$3 .ds ]L (\^\\$3\^)
.if!\\$4 .ds ]D \\$4
.wh0 }H
.wh-\\n(:mu }F
.em}M
.if\\n(nl .bp
.nr)I \\n()Mu
.nr)R 0
.}E
.DT
.ifn \{.na
.nh\}
.ift \{.bd S 3 3
.hy14 \}
..
.TH CHSEND 2 PROTOTYPE
.SH NAME
chsend \- send a grammatical channel message
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <chdefs.h>
.PP
.nf
.B "int chsend (chname, chend, chfunc, prname, mtype, mtext)"
.B char *chname;
.B int chend, chfunc;
.B char *prname;
.B int mtype;
.B char *mtext;
.SH DESCRIPTION
Chsend sends a message given in mtext into the channel chname.
Chend indicates which end of the channel the message should be
sent into, either AEND (A end) or BEND (B end).  
.PP
Chfunc indicates
the channel function to be performed with the message.  Its values
are: (1) STARTP - start parsing the protocol given in prname, (2) ENDP - 
normally terminate parsing by the active protocol, (3) CLEARP - unconditionally
terminate any protocol parsing, and (4) USERMSG - transport a user message.
.PP
Mtype is set by the user to a user message type value.  These values
are parsed by the requested protocols.
.SH RETURN VALUE
SUCCESS - message sent, NOCHANNEL - the specified channel
does not exist, NOTOPEN - the channel is not open at chend,
and FAIL - an error occurred.
.SH SEE ALSO
"Grammatical Channels" by T. E. Portegys

chclose(2), chcreat(2), chkill(2), chflush(2), chopen(2),
chpc(1), chrcv(2).
